blimp/docs/container.md, before:

# Running the engine in a Docker container

For local development and testing, you can run the engine in a Docker
container.

The steps are:

1. Bundle the engine and its dependencies.

1. Build a Docker image.

1. Create a Docker container.


## About Docker

To get a high-level overview of Docker, please read [Understand the
architecture](https://docs.docker.com/introduction/understanding-docker/).
Optional reading includes reference guides for
[`docker run`](https://docs.docker.com/reference/run/) and
[Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/reference/builder/).


### Installation

For Googlers running Goobuntu wanting to install Docker, see
[go/installdocker](https://goto.google.com/installdocker). For other
contributors using Ubuntu, see [official Docker
installation instructions](https://docs.docker.com/installation/ubuntulinux/).


## Bundle Engine

The `blimp/engine:blimp_engine_bundle` build target will bundle the engine and
its dependencies into a tarfile, which can be used to build a Docker image.
This target is always built as part of the top-level `blimp/blimp` meta-target.

### Update Engine Dependencies

`blimp/engine/engine-manifest.txt` is a list of the engine's runtime
dependencies. From time to time, this list may need to be updated. Use
`blimp/tools/generate-engine-manifest.py` to (re)generate the manifest:

```bash
./blimp/tools/generate-engine-manifest.py \
    --build-dir out-linux/Debug \
    --target //blimp/engine \
    --output blimp/engine/engine-manifest.txt
```

Be sure to review the generated manifest and remove any false runtime
dependencies.

## Build Docker Image

Using the tarfile you can create a Docker image:

```bash
docker build -t blimp_engine - < ./out-linux/Debug/blimp_engine_bundle.tar.gz
```

## Running the Engine in a Docker Container

After building the Docker image you can launch the engine inside the Docker
container.

### Setting up an Environment

A little prep work is necessary to enable the engine to start as it requires a
few files that are not provided by the container. You need:

*   A directory (`$CONFIG_DIR`) with permissions of 0755 (ie. world accessable)
*   `$CONFIG_DIR/stunnel.pem`: A PEM encoded file with a private key and a
    public certificate. Permissions should be set to 644.
*   `$CONFIG_DIR/client_token`: A file with a non-empty string used as the
    client token (the shared secret between the client and the engine).
    Permissions should also be set to 644. See [running](running.md) for how
    to get the default token from the source code.

This setup step is only required once and can be reused for all the rest of the
runs of the engine.

### Running the Engine

Once the `$CONFIG_DIR` is set up, you can launch the engine in the Docker
container:

```bash
docker run -v $CONFIG_DIR:/engine/data -p 443:25466 blimp_engine
```
You can also pass additional flags:

```bash
docker run ... blimp_engine --with-my-flags
```
See the [blimp engine `Dockerfile`](../engine/Dockerfile) to find out what flags
are passed by default.

Commit message:

Fix flaky builds of blimp engine bundle action.
Currently the bundling of the blimp engine uses a manifest of files to
include. This manifest file is listed as an input to the action that
performs the bundling. However, nothing is currently done to ensure that
the files listed in the manifest are in fact available.

It was previously thought that depending on //blimp/engine would ensure
that all the outputs of the tree of targets that includes would be enough
to ensure that they are available. However, for transitive data_deps,
which would be available at runtime, but not necessarily available for
other build steps to depend on as their inputs.

This CL manually lists all the targets that generate the artifacts that
are currently listed in the manifest as dependencies so they are finished
before the bundle step is triggered.

The documentation is also updated to account for this.

BUG=587247

Review-Url: https://codereview.chromium.org/1952853003
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#391953}

blimp/docs/container.md, after:

# Running the engine in a Docker container

For local development and testing, you can run the engine in a Docker
container.

The steps are:

1. Bundle the engine and its dependencies.

1. Build a Docker image.

1. Create a Docker container.


## About Docker

To get a high-level overview of Docker, please read [Understand the
architecture](https://docs.docker.com/introduction/understanding-docker/).
Optional reading includes reference guides for
[`docker run`](https://docs.docker.com/reference/run/) and
[Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/reference/builder/).


### Installation

For Googlers running Goobuntu wanting to install Docker, see
[go/installdocker](https://goto.google.com/installdocker). For other
contributors using Ubuntu, see [official Docker
installation instructions](https://docs.docker.com/installation/ubuntulinux/).


## Bundle Engine

The `blimp/engine:blimp_engine_bundle` build target will bundle the engine and
its dependencies into a tarfile, which can be used to build a Docker image.
This target is always built as part of the top-level `blimp/blimp` meta-target.

### Update Engine Dependencies

`blimp/engine/engine-manifest.txt` is a list of the engine's runtime
dependencies. From time to time, this list may need to be updated. Use
`blimp/tools/generate-engine-manifest.py` to (re)generate the manifest:

```bash
./blimp/tools/generate-engine-manifest.py \
    --build-dir out-linux/Debug \
    --target //blimp/engine \
    --output blimp/engine/engine-manifest.txt
```

Be sure to review the generated manifest and remove any false runtime
dependencies.

For all entries listed in the manifest that are not from
`//third_party/blimp_fonts`, ensure that the target that generate that artifact
is manually listed as a dependency of `//blimp/engine:blimp_engine_bundle` to
ensure that it is built before the bundle step happens.

## Build Docker Image

Using the tarfile you can create a Docker image:

```bash
docker build -t blimp_engine - < ./out-linux/Debug/blimp_engine_bundle.tar.gz
```

## Running the Engine in a Docker Container

After building the Docker image you can launch the engine inside the Docker
container.

### Setting up an Environment

A little prep work is necessary to enable the engine to start as it requires a
few files that are not provided by the container. You need:

*   A directory (`$CONFIG_DIR`) with permissions of 0755 (ie. world accessable)
*   `$CONFIG_DIR/stunnel.pem`: A PEM encoded file with a private key and a
    public certificate. Permissions should be set to 644.
*   `$CONFIG_DIR/client_token`: A file with a non-empty string used as the
    client token (the shared secret between the client and the engine).
    Permissions should also be set to 644. See [running](running.md) for how
    to get the default token from the source code.

This setup step is only required once and can be reused for all the rest of the
runs of the engine.

### Running the Engine

Once the `$CONFIG_DIR` is set up, you can launch the engine in the Docker
container:

```bash
docker run -v $CONFIG_DIR:/engine/data -p 443:25466 blimp_engine
```
You can also pass additional flags:

```bash
docker run ... blimp_engine --with-my-flags
```
See the [blimp engine `Dockerfile`](../engine/Dockerfile) to find out what flags
are passed by default.
