docs/updating_clang.md, before:

# Updating clang

1.  Sync your Chromium tree to the latest revision to pick up any plugin
    changes and test the new compiler against ToT
1.  Update clang revision in tools/clang/scripts/update.py, upload CL to
    rietveld
1.  Run tools/clang/scripts/package.py to create a tgz of the binary (mac and
    linux)
1.  Do a local clobber build with that clang (mac and linux). Check that
    everything builds fine and no new warnings appear. (Optional if the
    revision picked in 1 was vetted by other means already.)
1.  Upload the binaries using gsutil, they will appear at
    http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/chromium-browser-clang/index.html
1.  Run goma package update script to push these packages to goma, send email
1.  `git cl try &&
    git cl try -m tryserver.chromium.mac -b mac_chromium_rel_ng -b
    mac_chromium_asan_rel_ng -b mac_chromium_gn_dbg -b ios_rel_device_ninja &&
    git cl try -m tryserver.chromium.linux -b linux_chromium_chromeos_dbg_ng
    -b linux_chromium_asan_rel_ng -b linux_chromium_chromeos_asan_rel_ng
    -b linux_chromium_rel_ng -b linux_chromium_msan_rel_ng &&
    git cl try -m tryserver.chromium.android -b android_clang_dbg_recipe &&
    git cl try -m tryserver.blink -b linux_blink_rel`
1.  Commit roll CL from the first step
1.  The bots will now pull the prebuilt binary, and goma will have a matching
    binary, too.

Commit message:

Update docs on how to update clang in Chromium
R=thakis@chromium.org,hans@chromium.org,krasin@chromium.org
BUG=
NOTRY=True

Review-Url: https://codereview.chromium.org/1945383002
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#391539}

docs/updating_clang.md, after:

# Updating clang

1.  Sync your Chromium tree to the latest revision to pick up any plugin
    changes
1.  Run `python tools/clang/scripts/upload_revision.py --clang_revision=NNNN`
    with the target LLVM SVN revision number
1.  If the clang upload trybots succeed, run the goma package update script to
    push these packages to goma. If you do not have the necessary credentials to
    do the upload, ask clang@chromium.org to find someone who does
1.  Run an exhaustive set of try jobs to test the new compiler: `git cl try &&
    git cl try -m tryserver.chromium.mac -b mac_chromium_rel_ng -b
    mac_chromium_asan_rel_ng -b mac_chromium_gn_dbg -b ios_rel_device_ninja &&
    git cl try -m tryserver.chromium.linux -b linux_chromium_chromeos_dbg_ng
    -b linux_chromium_asan_rel_ng -b linux_chromium_chromeos_asan_rel_ng
    -b linux_chromium_rel_ng -b linux_chromium_msan_rel_ng &&
    git cl try -m tryserver.chromium.android -b android_clang_dbg_recipe &&
    git cl try -m tryserver.blink -b linux_blink_rel`
1.  Commit roll CL from the first step
1.  The bots will now pull the prebuilt binary, and goma will have a matching
    binary, too.
